DOCSP-26557 - field mapping options (#156)
mongodb/docs-csharp: source/fundamentals/serialization/poco.txt

>              public string Name { get; set; }

Author: So I wouldn't have to change the BSON representation to use a GUID, which would require additional time to test. I don't think there any places on this page where I used a Clothing object with a GUID ID (correct me if I'm wrong!) so I left it as is.

your POCO. This section describes some of the common
serialization-related attributes.

Serialize Read-Only Properties
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> If a property is read-only, the automapper doesn't include it in the class map for

Author: Good thought. There's more than one way to declare a read-only prop in C#, so I didn't want to say, "This is how you do it."

serialization. To force the automapper to include a property in the class map, apply the
``[BsonElement]`` attribute to the property.

The following code example applies the ``[BsonElement]`` attribute to the ``Upc`` property
of the ``Clothing`` class:

.. code-block:: csharp
   :copyable: false
   :emphasize-lines: 7

   public class Clothing
   {
       public ObjectId Id { get; set; }
       public string Name { get; set; }
       public bool InStock { get; set; }
       public double Price { get; set; }
       [BsonElement]
       public int Upc { get; }
       public List<string> ColorSelection { get; set; }
   }
         
You can also add a read-only property to the class map manually, as shown in the
following example:

.. code-block:: csharp
   
   BsonClassMap.RegisterClassMap<Clothing>(classMap => 
   {
       classMap.AutoMap();
       classMap.MapProperty(c => c.Upc);
   });

.. note::

   When the {+driver-short+} serializes a read-only property, the property's value is

>    stored in the database, but never deserialized again.

Author: I believe so. Original docs say:

#When a readonly property is serialized, its value is persisted to the database, but never read back out. This is useful for storing “computed” properties.

you register the class map, as shown in the following example:

.. code-block:: csharp
   :copyable: true

   BsonClassMap.RegisterClassMap<House>(classMap => 
   {
      classMap.AutoMap();
      classMap.MapMember(h => h.YearBuilt).SetIgnoreIfDefault(true);
   });

You can both specify a different default value for a property and instruct the driver to
ignore the property if it contains this default value.
In the following code example, if a value has not been assigned
to the ``YearBuilt`` property, it will have the specified default value of ``1900``.
Because ``1900`` is the default value for this property, the driver will ignore the
property if it has this value.

.. code-block:: csharp
   :copyable: true
   :emphasize-lines: 5-6

   public class House
   {
       public Guid Id { get; set; }

       [BsonDefaultValue(1900)]
       [BsonIgnoreIfDefault] 
       public int YearBuilt { get; set; }
   }

Specify an ID Generator
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Every document in a MongoDB collection must have a unique ID. When you serialize an object
to a collection, if the ``Id`` property contains the default

> value for its data type, the {+driver-short+} generates a unique ID value for it.

Author: to get technical, you could assign a value that is the same as the default value (like `int x = 0`), and i don't think the driver can tell the difference. So it's not a question of whether you assign a value but whether the value equals the default value.

reworded slightly?

   for the ID.

You can also specify an ``IIdGenerator`` type while registering the class map, as shown in
the following example:

.. code-block:: csharp
   :copyable: true

   BsonClassMap.RegisterClassMap<House>(classMap => 
   {
      classMap.AutoMap();
      classMap.MapIdMember(h => h.Id).SetIdGenerator(CombGuidGenerator.Instance);
   });

.. tip:: Specify an ``IIdGenerator`` for Multiple Classes

   You can use the ``RegisterIdGenerator()`` method to specify a single ``IIdGenerator``
   for all ``Id`` properties of a certain data type. The following code example instructs
   the driver to use the ``CombGuidGenerator`` type for all ``Guid`` IDs:

   .. code-block:: csharp
      :copyable: true
   
      BsonSerializer.RegisterIdGenerator(
        typeof(Guid),
        CombGuidGenerator.Instance
      );

The {+driver-short+} also includes ``IIdGenerator`` types that validate the ``Id``
property and throw an exception if the ID is invalid. The following table lists these
types:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 10 10 

   * - ID Validation 
     - ``IIdGenerator`` Type 
   * - Not null 
     - ``NullIdChecker``

>    * - Not all zeroes 

Reviewer: Q: what does not "all" zeroes mean?

Author: Like `0000000000` I think

     - ``ZeroIdChecker<T>``

> In the following code example, if the ``Id`` property of the ``House`` class contains
> the default value (``null``), the driver will throw an exception:

Reviewer: S: avoid future tense
```suggestion
In the following code example, if the ``Id`` property of the ``House`` class contains
the default value (``null``), the driver throws an exception:
```

.. code-block:: csharp
   :copyable: false
   :emphasize-lines: 3
   
   public class House
   {
       [BsonId(IdGenerator = typeof(NullIdChecker))]
       public Guid Id { get; set; }
   }

Customize DateTime Serialization
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To customize how the {+driver-short+} serializes ``DateTime`` properties, use the
``[BsonDateTimeOptions()]`` attribute and specify the desired setting as an argument.

If a ``DateTime`` property represents only a date, you can apply the
``[BsonDateTimeOptions(DateOnly = true)]`` attribute to it.

> If you do, the driver won't perform time-zone conversion on the value.

Reviewer: https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/terminology/alphabetical-terms/#:~:text=as%20a%20noun.-,time%20zone,-Use%20time%20zone
```suggestion
If you do, the driver won't perform any time zone conversion on the value.
```

Author: for sure, but i think it's functioning as a [compound modifier](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/style/punctuation/#hyphens-in-compound-modifiers) here

Reviewer: ah ok!

In the following code example, the ``PatientRecord`` class uses a ``DateTime`` for the
``DateOfBirth`` property. The ``[BsonDateTimeOptions(DateOnly = true)]``

> attribute indicates that the property contains only a date.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
attribute indicates that the property contains only a date:
```

Author: [I think it's a period when you have more than one intro sentence](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/style/lists/#introductory-text)

.. code-block:: csharp
   :copyable: true
   :emphasize-lines: 5

   public class PatientRecord
   {
       public Guid Id { get; set; }

       [BsonDateTimeOptions(DateOnly = true)]
       public DateTime DateOfBirth { get; set; }
   }

You can also use the ``[BsonDateTimeOptions()]`` attribute to specify the ``DateTimeKind``
of a ``DateTime`` property. In the following code example, the ``PatientRecord`` class
uses a ``DateTime`` for the ``AppointmentTime`` property.
The ``[BsonDateTimeOptions(Kind = DateTimeKind.Local)]`` attribute indicates

> that the time component of the property's value is in local time. When the

Reviewer: Q: what does "local" time mean? does the driver pull this from user workspace settings or something?

Author: The existing docs don't clarify, but either workspace/computer settings or possibly MongoDB settings

> driver serializes this property, it will convert the time to UTC, the standard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
driver serializes this property, it converts the time to UTC, the standard
```

format for times stored in MongoDB.

.. code-block:: csharp
   :copyable: true
   :emphasize-lines: 8

   public class PatientRecord
   {
       public Guid Id { get; set; }

       [BsonDateTimeOptions(DateOnly = true)]

>        public DateTime DateOfBirth { get; set; }

Reviewer: Q: Does this example need this field if its demonstrating the `Kind` setting?

Author: No, I just kept it as a continuation of the previous one. Is it clearer if I leave it out?

Reviewer: yes, I think it could be distracting. So far, this page doesn't use the same exact class in each section, should not be confusing to the reader if this class only demonstrates the attribute of note.

       [BsonDateTimeOptions(Kind = DateTimeKind.Local)]
       public DateTime AppointmentTime { get; set; }
   }

You can also specify one or both of the previous ``DateTime`` options when
registering the class map:

.. code-block:: csharp
   :copyable: true

   BsonClassMap.RegisterClassMap<House>(classMap => 
   {
      classMap.AutoMap();
      classMap.MapMember(p => p.DateOfBirth).SetSerializer(new DateTimeSerializer(dateOnly: true));
      classMap.MapMember(p => p.AppointmentTime).SetSerializer(new DateTimeSerializer(DateTimeKind.Local));
   });

.. tip:: DateTimeKind Values

   The ``DateTimeKind`` enum is part of the {+framework+}. For more information on

>    its members, see the `Microsoft documentation. <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.datetimekind?view=net-8.0>`__

Reviewer: S: make link text clear
```suggestion
   its variants, see the `DateTimeKind Enum Microsoft documentation. <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.datetimekind?view=net-8.0>`__
```

Reviewer: ignore if members is terminology in C# as opposed to variants (which is the Rust term)

Customize Dictionary Serialization
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``DictionaryRepresentation`` enum defines the formats the {+driver-short+}
can serialize a ``Dictionary`` to. This enum includes the following members:

- **Document**: Default. The driver serializes the ``Dictionary`` to a ``BsonDocument``.
  Each entry in the dictionary is a ``BsonElement`` with a name equal to
  the entry's key and a value equal to the entry's value. You can
  use this representation only when all the keys in the dictionary are strings that
  are also valid ``BsonElement`` names.
- **ArrayOfArrays**: The driver serializes the dictionary to a ``BsonArray``. Each
  entry in the dictionary is a nested ``BsonArray`` that contains two elements:
  the entry's key and the entry's value.
- **ArrayOfDocuments**: The driver serializes the dictionary to a ``BsonArray``. Each
  entry in the dictionary is a nested ``BsonDocument`` of the form
  ``{ k : key, v : value }``. Because the keys and values are
  tagged with element names, this format is much easier to query than ``ArrayOfArrays``.

> 

Reviewer: Q: could you include an example here of how to apply this enum in an attribute?

Author: good call

> Example

Reviewer: S: as part of this ticket, you could edit the example to include some of these new customizations, such as the ID generator or something!

Author: love it. ID generator wouldn't work here, but I can customize the default values

(``0`` for ``int`` properties), the driver won't serialize it.

.. code-block:: csharp
   :copyable: true
   :emphasize-lines: 5

   public class House
   {
       public Guid Id { get; set; }

       [BsonIgnoreIfDefault]
       public int YearBuilt { get; set; }
   }

You can also instruct the driver to ignore a property that contains the default value when
you register the class map, as shown in the following example:

.. code-block:: csharp
   :copyable: true

   BsonClassMap.RegisterClassMap<House>(classMap => 
   {
      classMap.AutoMap();
      classMap.MapMember(h => h.YearBuilt).SetIgnoreIfDefault(true);
   });

You can both specify a different default value for a property and instruct the driver to
ignore the property if it contains this default value. To do so, apply both the
``[BsonDefaultValue()]`` and ``[BsonIgnoreIfDefault]`` attributes to the property,
as shown in the following code example:

.. code-block:: csharp
   :copyable: true
   :emphasize-lines: 5-6

   public class House
   {
       public Guid Id { get; set; }

       [BsonDefaultValue(1900)]
       [BsonIgnoreIfDefault] 
       public int YearBuilt { get; set; }
   }

> The previous code example shows the following serialization behavior:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The previous code example sets the following serialization behavior:
```

Author: good call

   
      BsonSerializer.RegisterIdGenerator(
        typeof(Guid),
        CombGuidGenerator.Instance
      );

The {+driver-short+} also includes ``IIdGenerator`` types that validate the ``Id``
property and throw an exception if the ID is invalid. The following table lists these
types:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 10 10 

   * - ID Validation 
     - ``IIdGenerator`` Type 
   * - Not null 
     - ``NullIdChecker``
   * - Not all zeroes 
     - ``ZeroIdChecker<T>``

In the following code example, if the ``Id`` property of the ``House`` class contains
the default value (``null``), the driver throws an exception:

.. code-block:: csharp
   :copyable: false
   :emphasize-lines: 3
   
   public class House
   {
       [BsonId(IdGenerator = typeof(NullIdChecker))]
       public Guid Id { get; set; }
   }

Customize DateTime Serialization
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To customize how the {+driver-short+} serializes ``DateTime`` properties, use the
``[BsonDateTimeOptions()]`` attribute and specify the desired setting as an argument.

If a ``DateTime`` property represents only a date, you can apply the
``[BsonDateTimeOptions(DateOnly = true)]`` attribute to it.

> If you do, the driver won't perform any time-zone conversion on the value.

Reviewer: S: time zone is two words - https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/terminology/alphabetical-terms/#t:~:text=as%20a%20noun.-,time%20zone,-Use%20time%20zone
```suggestion
If you do, the driver won't perform any time zone conversion on the value.
```

In the following code example, the ``PatientRecord`` class uses a ``DateTime`` for the
``DateOfBirth`` property. The ``[BsonDateTimeOptions(DateOnly = true)]``
attribute indicates that the property contains only a date.

.. code-block:: csharp
   :copyable: true
   :emphasize-lines: 5

   public class PatientRecord
   {
       public Guid Id { get; set; }

       [BsonDateTimeOptions(DateOnly = true)]
       public DateTime DateOfBirth { get; set; }
   }

You can also use the ``[BsonDateTimeOptions()]`` attribute to specify the ``DateTimeKind``

> of a ``DateTime`` property. In the following code example, the ``PatientRecord`` class
> uses a ``DateTime`` for the ``AppointmentTime`` property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of a ``DateTime`` property. In the following code example, the ``PatientRecord`` class
has an ``AppointmentTime`` property with a value of type ``DateTime``.
```

The ``[BsonDateTimeOptions(Kind = DateTimeKind.Local)]`` attribute indicates
that the time component of the property's value is in local time. When the
driver serializes this property, it converts the time to UTC, the standard
format for times stored in MongoDB.

.. code-block:: csharp
   :copyable: true
   :emphasize-lines: 8

   public class PatientRecord
   {
       public Guid Id { get; set; }

       [BsonDateTimeOptions(DateOnly = true)]
       public DateTime DateOfBirth { get; set; }

       [BsonDateTimeOptions(Kind = DateTimeKind.Local)]
       public DateTime AppointmentTime { get; set; }
   }

You can also specify one or both of the previous ``DateTime`` options when
registering the class map:

.. code-block:: csharp
   :copyable: true

   BsonClassMap.RegisterClassMap<House>(classMap => 
   {
      classMap.AutoMap();
      classMap.MapMember(p => p.DateOfBirth).SetSerializer(new DateTimeSerializer(dateOnly: true));

>       classMap.MapMember(p => p.AppointmentTime).SetSerializer(new DateTimeSerializer(DateTimeKind.Local));

Reviewer: S: newline the method calls to remove horiz scroll

   });

.. tip:: DateTimeKind Values

   The ``DateTimeKind`` enum is part of the {+framework+}. For more information on
   its members, see the `Microsoft documentation for the DateTimeKind enum. <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.datetimekind?view=net-8.0>`__

Customize Dictionary Serialization
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The ``DictionaryRepresentation`` enum defines the formats the {+driver-short+}
> can serialize a ``Dictionary`` to. This enum includes the following members:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``DictionaryRepresentation`` enum defines the target format that the {+driver-short+} serializes
``Dictionary`` instances into. This enum includes the following members:
```

Author: I was describing the enum variable itself, which contains three different possible formats.

Added `instances`

> - **Document**: Default. The driver serializes the ``Dictionary`` to a ``BsonDocument``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Document**: (Default) The driver serializes the ``Dictionary`` to a ``BsonDocument``.
```

Author: This should be in the style guide

  Each entry in the dictionary is a ``BsonElement`` with a name equal to
  the entry's key and a value equal to the entry's value. You can
  use this representation only when all the keys in the dictionary are strings that
  are also valid ``BsonElement`` names.
- **ArrayOfArrays**: The driver serializes the dictionary to a ``BsonArray``. Each

>   entry in the dictionary is a nested ``BsonArray`` that contains two elements:
>   the entry's key and the entry's value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  entry in the dictionary is a nested ``BsonArray`` that contains two elements,
  the entry's key and the entry's value.
```

Author: comma felt weird to me, so i reworded

- **ArrayOfDocuments**: The driver serializes the dictionary to a ``BsonArray``. Each
  entry in the dictionary is a nested ``BsonDocument`` of the form
  ``{ k : key, v : value }``. Because the keys and values are

>   tagged with element names, this format is much easier to query than ``ArrayOfArrays``.

Reviewer: S: "easier" is a bit vague here. what about:
```suggestion
  tagged with element names, you can query this format more intuitively than you can query an``ArrayOfArrays`` 
  instance.
```

In the following code example, the ``RoomSize`` property is a dictionary that contains

> each room in a house and its corresponding size. The {+driver-short+} would serialize
> this property to a ``BsonArray`` object, and each entry in the dictionary to a
> ``BsonDocument`` of the form ``{ k : "<room>", v : <size> }``. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
each room in a house and its corresponding size. The attribute specifies that the {+driver-short+} serializes
this property to a ``BsonArray`` object, and each entry in the dictionary to a
``BsonDocument`` of the form ``{ k : "<room>", v : <size> }``.
```

.. code-block:: csharp
   :copyable: true
   :emphasize-lines: 5

   public class House
   {
       public Guid Id { get; set; }

       [BsonDictionaryOptions(DictionaryRepresentation.ArrayOfDocuments)]
       public Dictionary<string, float> RoomSize { get; set; }
   }

You can also specify the serialization format of a dictionary when
you register the class map, as shown in the following example:

.. code-block:: csharp
   :copyable: true

   BsonClassMap.RegisterClassMap<House>(classMap => 
   {
       classMap.AutoMap();

>        classMAp.MapMember(h => h.RoomSize).SetSerializer(new DictionaryInterfaceImplementerSerializer<Dictionary<string, float>>(DictionaryRepresentation.ArrayOfDocuments));

Reviewer: S: reduce horizontal scroll

Customize Dictionary Serialization
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``DictionaryRepresentation`` enum defines the formats the {+driver-short+}
can serialize a ``Dictionary`` instance to. This enum includes the following members:

- **Document**: (Default) The driver serializes the ``Dictionary`` to a ``BsonDocument``.
  Each entry in the dictionary is a ``BsonElement`` with a name equal to
  the entry's key and a value equal to the entry's value. You can
  use this representation only when all the keys in the dictionary are strings that
  are also valid ``BsonElement`` names.
- **ArrayOfArrays**: The driver serializes the dictionary to a ``BsonArray``. Each
  entry in the dictionary is a nested, two-element ``BsonArray`` that contains
  the entry's key and the entry's value.
- **ArrayOfDocuments**: The driver serializes the dictionary to a ``BsonArray``. Each
  entry in the dictionary is a nested ``BsonDocument`` of the form
  ``{ k : key, v : value }``. Because the keys and values are
  tagged with element names, you can query this format more intuitively than
  an ``ArrayOfArrays``.

> In the following code example, the ``RoomSize`` property is a dictionary that contains

Reviewer: S: to better match the description as this property likely describes more than one room - applies to all mentions
```suggestion
In the following code example, the ``RoomSizes`` property is a dictionary that contains
```

- ``[BsonElement()]``, which specifies custom field names in the camel case naming convention
- ``[BsonRepresentation()]``, which specifies serialization of the ``Price`` field as a BSON ``Double`` type

> - ``[BsonDefaultValue("Generic item")]``, which sets the ``Name`` property to
>   ``"Generic item"`` if no value has been assigned to it

Reviewer: S: as the other bullet items dont include the argument, you can omit here as well and just list the attribute name
```suggestion
- ``[BsonDefaultValue()]``, which sets the ``Name`` property to
  ``"Generic item"`` if no value has been assigned to it
```
